cross over to our diplomatic editor
James Bay who's at un headquarters in
New York the UN Ambassador there
explaining uh her position and her
government's position but even if they
do present an alternative resolution
James that might not be accepted by the
security
Council oh yes there's all sorts of
problems ahead and all sorts of
negotiations ahead on the US draft this
is the US draft that they haven't even
formally presented to the security
Council and my understanding from the US
is they're not in a great deal of a rush
they would actually like to give
everyone an opportunity to comment on
this um and uh that uh they would take
in representations from other
delegations on it but of course that
means more delay and delay is also the
result of the veto today it means there
is no immediate ceasefire in place it
means more people will die in Gaza now
the US position was uh that uh this is
to give space to negot negotiations that
have been taking place in the region um
but of course the those negotiations
involve the US and Israel but also Egypt
and Qatar both Egypt and Qatar had no
problem with the Algerian draft uh that
the US vetoed uh the US said if that
draft came into force and Hamas was
given a ceasefire that's the way she put
it uh then they um there wouldn't be the
incentive for Hamas to release those
being held prisoner uh in Gaza that's
certainly the
the line that the US are taking at this
time but it is a very interesting
picture um if you look at the security
Council table today it's 13 countries in
favor of an immediate Ceasar and I think
that also reflects the vast majority of
the membership of The Wider membership
of the United Nations of the 193
countries and on the other side just the
US vetoing and stopping this resolution
becoming binding international law and
the UK uh not quite with the us but sort
of with the US they abstained on the
resolution and of course James it was a
disappointing session certainly for the
Algerian sponsored resolution the Arab
delegation did speak after that meeting
a short time afterwards what did they
have to
say well they expressed their their
their dissatisfaction with the US
position and the fact that there is no
Ceasar they said after so many deaths
and so much time that there needed to be
a ceasefire in place in in fact the
Palestinian Ambassador Riyad Mansour
when he spoke in the security Council
just before he spoke to us outside he
said that the last security council
meeting on this subject had been on the
31st of January so just at the end of
last month 20 days ago and he said in
that 20 days he said more than 4,000
more Palestinians had died he said that
means the rate of killing is 20 is 200
Palestinians a day it means by his
calculation during that 2our security
council meeting that 25 Palestinians
were killed just during that meeting and
that shows what all of this delay means
I I'll tell you that although they were
saying publicly they were deeply unhappy
with the US I did speak to one Arab
Diplomat who said he could see some
change in the US position the fact that
they're actually using the word
ceasefire albe it a temporary ceas far
when practicable the fact that's in the
new US draft is interesting and some of
the language on Rafa this Diplomat said
showed that perhaps the US position is
changing this particular Diplomat said
to me a part of it in his view is the
US's own calculations in terms of their
own domestic politics with a US election
coming up at the end of this year James
B our diplomatic editor there with an
update from us from the UN thank you now
the world food program says it's once
again pausing deliveries of food Aid to
Northern Gaza until safer conditions are
created the agency says its Convoy of
trucks were met with gunfire and looting
with its drivers navigating complete
chaos and violence due to a collapse of
civil order the wfp previously suspended
deliveries for 3 weeks after a truck
came under Fire by the Israeli military
a deliveries to the north have been
scarce with residents there enduring
acute malnourishment T Abu is uh
standing by for us uh in Rafa uh
disappointing news at the security
Council and now disappointing news for
from Aid agencies it's certainly
worrying for those that are depending on
any sort of help coming into the
strip well we have been reporting about
this again and again in fact so H the
food crisis the acute food insecurity
that Palestinians are suffering from the
Norther part of gaza's strip and right
now with the suspension of the world
food program about its cities in Aid
deliveries to the nor part the situation
is moving from being terrible to be
catastrophic as people there are
suffering from one of the worst man-made
starvation being ever made as a part of
the Israeli ongoing genocidal military
campaign on the Gaza Strip as we have
been uh seeing that the uh the wfb had
suspended its deliveries to AIDS to the
Norther part of the Gaza Strip
specifically that came after it had
recently renewed it
activities and a deliveries to the North
after 3 weeks of suspension where people
in the north are completely and
desperately need such much needed
humanitarian supplies the the record of
famine there is unprecedented and at the
same time children elderly people and
women there are facing a clear
malnutrition because of the uh full
absence of food items there and with the
ongoing Israeli restrictions on Aid
delivery and with the ongoing
bombardment that is the main cause why
the wfb had suspend its deliveries for
the aid supplies to the north of the
Gaza Strip situation will completely
change rabidly where people will die
because of hanger and TK again day or
night the strikes continue where should
we be focusing our attention right
now yes as we have been hearing more
loud explosions in KH unas and we have
been seeing a clear surge of military
attacks also in the Central areas again
of the territory where Dar bah had been
attacked in the past hour a residential
building belongs to K family had been
destroyed where a number of Palestinians
that have reported injured and the
rescue operations as well in the area of
the targeting continues Amed the very uh
growing difficulty for people there to
be evacuated and the injuries have been
transported to alaka hospital for
medical uh treatment but we have been
hearing also and we have been hearing
from residents in the north that they
have have been more growing bombardments
in jabalia refugee camp alongside with
Rafa District in the far south of Gaza
STP where civil car had been targeted
two Palestinians at least being wed Amed
ongoing artillery bombardment for the
eastern part of Rafa in one of the most
adjacent areas that separate hunas from
Rafa District in the far south of Gaza
Strip with the overall bombardment today
the death had ding alongside with
casualties among civilians to more than
140 Palestinians being injured within
the past 24 hours ter Zoom force in Rafa
thank
you